Welcome back.
In this video we'll finish up our study of data joins D-3 by exploring a more general update pattern
for binding data to elements in the last video we learned how to use the exit selection and D-3 to remove
elements from the DOM when they are no longer joined with data.
I've taken that code and put it inside of an event listener.
There's now a button in my HMO that I can click on to remove quotes from R-rated movies.
I've also added a second button that when clicked should add some new quotes to the page.
I've got the new quote stored in a variable but right now the button isn't working.
Let's implement this functionality along the way.
We'll talk about D-3 general update pattern our button has an ID of at.
So when our javascript lets select this button with D-3 and add an event listener for clicks.
When I click on the Add button I want to add the new quotes to the array of quotes and use D-3 to bind
the new array to the list items.
Then I want to style them so that they look consistent with the existing quotes.
For now I'll duplicate all the styling we used to and we added the first set of quotes.
Though I'd encourage you to try to refactor this code on your own to remove the duplication
finally.
I'll go ahead and remove the ad button from the page so that we can add the same quotes over and over
again.
Let's save this and see what happens when I click on the Add button.
Something's not right.
The newest items aren't being appended to the quotes list they're being appended to the HVM El when
you are appending new elements on an update.
Make sure you first select the parent element you'd like to append to before selecting the children.
Otherwise by default your new elements will get appended to the HCM tag.
In this case we need to update our initial selections so that we're first selecting the unordered list
before creating the selection of list items.
Let's refresh the page and try again.
Much better.
It's also important to note that any changes you make to the selection will only affect the new list
items.
This is because we're passing the enter selection.
You can think of every selection in D-3 as having three parts the enter selection corresponds to pieces
of data that don't yet have elements on the page.
The exit selection corresponds to elements on the page that no longer have pieces of data and the update
selection corresponds to elements on the page that are successfully joined to data D-3 treats these
groups separately.
For example if we change the padding from 20 pixels to zero in our code we see that only the new quotes
reflect this change.
Because we're only targeting the nodes.
The Enter selection is separation between the enter and update selections can be helpful if we want
to style one group differently than the other.
But what if we want to apply the same set of changes to both selections.
We could just grab each group individually and apply the changes we want but D-3 provides us with a
method called merge that merges together the enter and update selections.
Let's apply our existing style rules to the new quotes but after merging Let's change the font color
of every quote on the page here's what that would look like.
First we're binding existing list items to our new data and storing the selection.
Since we haven't called enter or exit this represents the update selection.
Next we're hopping into the intersection appending the new list items and styling them appropriately.
This is exactly what we did before.
Finally we're merging our entered selection with our update selection.
This is why we stored the update selection in a variable.
Once we've merged our selections we're updating the style of every list item in that selection not just
the new ones this pattern.
Part of what's called the general update pattern in D-3 the general update pattern consists of these
four steps when you're joining an arbitrary amount of data to an arbitrary number of elements.
First grab the update selection.
Make any changes unique to that selection and store the selection in a variable next grab the exit selection
and remove any unnecessary elements.
Then grab the enter selection and make any changes unique to it.
Finally merge the enter and update selections and make any changes that you want to be shared across
both of these selections will get more practice with this pattern in the exercises.
That's it for the section on joining data elements with D-3 in the next section.
We'll learn about the SVGA element in HCM L and how to use D-3 with us Weegee.
I'll meet you back here after you finish the exercises for this section.